README.md, before:

# Cookie Bike 🍪🚴

This thing is just a thing I made. Try to use it if you dare.

Cookie bike goes:

Exercise bike > Arduino > Computer
- Exercise bike pedal sensor goes to Arduino (Pin 2 and GND).
- Arduino USB goes to Computer USB Port.

Cookie Bike has 2 software components:
- Cookie Bike App, a node app that controls the Arduino, calculates the pedalling speed and makes the result available to Cookie Bike Script.
- Cookie Bike Script, a browser Userscript that asks Cookie Bike App for data and controls the clicking of the Cookie Clicker cookie.

## Your bike

Cookie Bike measures the rate you pedal at by detecting a completed circuit once per pedal cycle. The exercise bike we have as a 3.5mm TS jack which acts like a normally open switch, but which closes for a bit each revolution. If the Arduino's GND is connected to the sleeve of the 3.5mm jack and Pin 2 of the Arduino is connected to the tip of the 3.5mm jack, then the Arduino and Cookie Bike App can measuring how often the circuit is closed, and work out the pedal rate from that.

Your bike needs some way of closing a circuit once per revolution to work with Cookie Bike.

## Setup

### Arduino setup

Cookie Bike App uses [Johnny Five](http://johnny-five.io/) to control an Arduino from the Cookie Bike App.
I used an Arduino Micro, which required me to [follow these instructions](http://johnny-five.io/platform-support/#arduino-micro):

#### Install the Arduino IDE

1. Do this https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Windows

#### Install the Firmata library

1. Open the Arduino IDE and navigate to: `Sketch > Include Library > Manage Libraries`.
2. Filter by "Firmata" and click on the "Firmata by Firmata Developers" item in the list of results.
3. Click the Select version dropdown and select the most recent version (note you can also install previous versions).
4. Click Install.

*Instructions from [here](https://github.com/firmata/arduino#user-content-updating-firmata-in-the-arduino-ide---arduino-164-and-higher)*

#### Upload the StandardFirmataPlus runtime to the Arduino Micro

1. Select `File > Examples > Firmata > StandardFirmataPlus`
2. Select `Tools > Board > Arduino Micro`
3. Click Upload

### Node app setup

Build yourself an executable.

1. Open terminal and go to `cookie-bike/cookie-bike-app`
2. Run `yarn && yarn start-dev` to try it out
3. Run `yarn build` to make an executable. It'll have a name like `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-win.exe` or something.

If that all works then you can just use the executable from now on. You should also be able to use the executable on other similar computers without them needing to built it themselves, hopefully.

When you run it, either with `yarn && yarn start-dev` or using the executable file, it should look something like this:

![capture](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/345320/50081281-2dbd7980-0242-11e9-8081-72a8eee60323.PNG)

### Chrome setup

1. Open Chrome
2. Install [Tampermonkey](https://tampermonkey.net)
3. To add `cookie-bike-script/CookieBike.user.js` to Tampermonkey, go to [/cookie-bike/raw/master/cookie-bike-script/CookieBike.user.js](/cookie-bike/raw/master/cookie-bike-script/CookieBike.user.js) and it should prompt you to add the script.
4. If you go to [Cookie Clicker](http://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/) in Chrome it should now ask you if you want to use Cookie Bike

## Usage

Do setup first if you haven't already.

1. Plug in stuff
  - Exercise bike pedal sensor 3.5mm plug goes to Arduino (Pin 2 and GND).
  - Arduino USB goes to Computer USB Port.
  - Arduino **must** be pluggen in and operational before starting Cookie Bike App
2. Start Cookie Bike App
  - Windows: start `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-win.exe`
  - Mac: start `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-mac`
  - Linux: start `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-linux`
3. Go to [Cookie Clicker](http://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/) in Chrome
4. Pedal!

### Changing the cookie rate

By default one pedal revolution will give you 6 cookies. That seems about right for our bike on the difficulty we like. You can change this by opening the console in Chrome by pressing `F12`, and typing `CookieBike.setMultiplier()` into it with the new number of cookies per cycle. Example:

```
CookieBike.setMultiplier(10);
```

Cookie Bike Script will remember this for next time you play. It uses `localStorage` to store the multiplier.

## Development

You need `node` and `yarn` (or `npm`) to dev cookie-bike-app.
- Run `yarn` (or `npm install`) in `cookie-bike-app` directory
- Run `yarn start-dev` to run the app
- Run `yarn build` to build the app into executables

You only really need [Tampermonkey](https://tampermonkey.net) to dev cookie-bike-script.

Commit message:

Cookie and bike and bike

README.md, after:

# Cookie Bike 🍪🚴

Control clicking the [Cookie Clicker](http://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/) cookie with an exercise bike. Try to use it if you dare. I probably wont help you much. 😈

Cookie bike goes:

Exercise bike 🚴 > Arduino 🕹️ > Computer 💻
- Exercise bike pedal sensor goes to Arduino (Pin 2 and GND).
- Arduino USB goes to Computer USB Port.

Cookie Bike has 2 software components:
- Cookie Bike App, a node app that controls the Arduino, calculates the pedalling speed and makes the result available to Cookie Bike Script.
- Cookie Bike Script, a browser Userscript that asks Cookie Bike App for data and controls the clicking of the Cookie Clicker cookie.

## Your bike 🚴

Cookie Bike measures the rate you pedal at by detecting a completed circuit once per pedal cycle. The exercise bike we have as a 3.5mm TS jack which acts like a normally open switch, but which closes for a bit each revolution. If the Arduino's GND is connected to the sleeve of the 3.5mm jack and Pin 2 of the Arduino is connected to the tip of the 3.5mm jack, then the Arduino and Cookie Bike App can measuring how often the circuit is closed, and work out the pedal rate from that.

Your bike needs some way of closing a circuit once per revolution to work with Cookie Bike.

## Setup

### Arduino setup

Cookie Bike App uses [Johnny Five](http://johnny-five.io/) to control an Arduino from the Cookie Bike App.
I used an Arduino Micro, which required me to [follow these instructions](http://johnny-five.io/platform-support/#arduino-micro):

#### Install the Arduino IDE

1. Do this https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Windows

#### Install the Firmata library

1. Open the Arduino IDE and navigate to: `Sketch > Include Library > Manage Libraries`.
2. Filter by "Firmata" and click on the "Firmata by Firmata Developers" item in the list of results.
3. Click the Select version dropdown and select the most recent version (note you can also install previous versions).
4. Click Install.

*Instructions from [here](https://github.com/firmata/arduino#user-content-updating-firmata-in-the-arduino-ide---arduino-164-and-higher)*

#### Upload the StandardFirmataPlus runtime to the Arduino Micro

1. Select `File > Examples > Firmata > StandardFirmataPlus`
2. Select `Tools > Board > Arduino Micro`
3. Click Upload

### Node app setup

Build yourself an executable.

1. Open terminal and go to `cookie-bike/cookie-bike-app`
2. Run `yarn && yarn start-dev` to try it out
3. Run `yarn build` to make an executable. It'll have a name like `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-win.exe` or something.

If that all works then you can just use the executable from now on. You should also be able to use the executable on other similar computers without them needing to built it themselves, hopefully.

When you run it, either with `yarn && yarn start-dev` or using the executable file, it should look something like this:

![capture](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/345320/50081281-2dbd7980-0242-11e9-8081-72a8eee60323.PNG)

### Chrome setup

1. Open Chrome
2. Install [Tampermonkey](https://tampermonkey.net)
3. To add `cookie-bike-script/CookieBike.user.js` to Tampermonkey, go to [/cookie-bike/raw/master/cookie-bike-script/CookieBike.user.js](/cookie-bike/raw/master/cookie-bike-script/CookieBike.user.js) and it should prompt you to add the script.
4. If you go to [Cookie Clicker](http://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/) in Chrome it should now ask you if you want to use Cookie Bike

## Usage

Do setup first if you haven't already.

1. Plug in stuff
  - Exercise bike pedal sensor 3.5mm plug goes to Arduino (Pin 2 and GND).
  - Arduino USB goes to Computer USB Port.
  - Arduino **must** be pluggen in and operational before starting Cookie Bike App
2. Start Cookie Bike App
  - Windows: start `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-win.exe`
  - Mac: start `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-mac`
  - Linux: start `/cookie-bike-app/cookie-bike-linux`
3. Go to [Cookie Clicker](http://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/) in Chrome
4. Pedal!

### Changing the cookie rate

By default one pedal revolution will give you 6 cookies. That seems about right for our bike on the difficulty we like. You can change this by opening the console in Chrome by pressing `F12`, and typing `CookieBike.setMultiplier()` into it with the new number of cookies per cycle. Example:

```
CookieBike.setMultiplier(10);
```

Cookie Bike Script will remember this for next time you play. It uses `localStorage` to store the multiplier.

## Development

You need `node` and `yarn` (or `npm`) to dev cookie-bike-app.
- Run `yarn` (or `npm install`) in `cookie-bike-app` directory
- Run `yarn start-dev` to run the app
- Run `yarn build` to build the app into executables

You only really need [Tampermonkey](https://tampermonkey.net) to dev cookie-bike-script.
